What if your game's characters could be
designed, rotated in eight directions,
and animated in minutes?
>> One minute later,
>> it's here. The Pixel app character
creator. Let's build a character
together step by step. So, today we'll
create a character from scratch. Pick
the look, pick the view, generate it
with rotations, and then add animations.
and finally show you how to download
everything and polish it in a sprite or
pixel island. Ready? Let's do it. First,
the character description box. Be
specific. For example, let's try brave
knight in golden armor, red scarf, short
cape, leather boots. Or we could go
totally different. Punk hero with neon
blue hair, black jacket, ripped jeans.
You can write color, clothing, features,
and style. The more detail, the better.
Next up, canvas size. Let's try the
default 64x 64. Great balance of retro
charm and readability. If you want
chunkier, you can always go with 48x 48.
If you want more detail, 96x96,
128x 128, or even 160x 160. We'll stick
with 64x 64 for this demo, though. Now,
camera view.
Important note, during setup, you're
seeing a gray dummy preview, not your
final character updating live as you
change settings. Let's switch to low top
down. See the dumy's perspective tilt.
Now, high top down for classic RPG look
and sidescroller for platformers.
Whatever we choose here will apply to
the final character. After we click
generate for this build, let's keep low
top down. Time to fine-tune.
Rotation type. Let's try eight
directions. Diagonals included. We
default to eight because why not? AI
freedom. I'll keep it low so the model
sticks closely to our description.
Outline style. Let's do selective
outline. shading style and detail level.
Let's go basic and medium detail. You'll
still see the gray dummy here. Let's try
a few tweaks.
Head size, bump it up for a slight
chibby vibe. Shoulder width, a little
wider for heroic posture. Legs length,
tiny tweak for proportions. We could
also click presets, chibi, cartoon,
heroic, realistic, but I'll keep it
custom for now. All right, everything's
set. And let's click generate.
And there we go. Our knight is created
in all eight directions we selected.
This is the real art, not the dummy. The
character appears in your hub where you
can preview rotations and manage your
roster.
[Music]
animations happen after you made your
character with the knight selected.
Let's try a few. First running eight
frames,
super smooth in diagonals.
We could also do a cross punch and I'm
going to click generate in the
background. And that way I can keep on
doing other animations.
So let's do the getting up animation.
Let's generate it live. And there we go.
There we have the getting up animation.
And we have the cross punch.
The hub is basically where all your
characters are going to be stored with
all the rotations, the animations, and
this is where you can download them and
edit them.
When you're ready, download rotations
and animations as spreadsheets. Choose
the size you worked in and you're set to
import into your engine. Or do a polish
pass. Autogenerated sprites are huge
time savers, but sometimes a frame will
have a straight pixel or a small quirk,
especially across multiframe animations.
That's normal. Open your sheets in a
sprite or pixel. Clean up off pixels,
tweak colors, add details, even handdraw
little flourishes. Pixel Lab gets you
90% of the way fast. Your artist touch
makes it 100% yours. In the case of
Pixelorama,
now we added this new feature where you
can just click edit in Pixelorama and
you can edit any animation or any
rotation. So you can click edit in
Pixelama and it'll just open it up in
the web and whenever you're done editing
you just click save and it'll be back in
your characters page. So you don't have
to download anything. You don't have to
export import. It's just that simple.
And of course, just don't forget that
every time you open it up to edit it in
Pixelama, you can always use the tools
from Pixelab like rotate and paint, etc.
So yeah, guys, jump in at pixelab.ai.
If you enjoyed this walkthrough, hit
subscribe. We've got more tutorials,
updates, and showcases coming soon. And
don't just create alone. Join our Pixel
Lab Discord community. We've got an
awesome art gallery channel where
everyone posts their characters, swaps
ideas, and gives feedback. It's the
perfect place to share what you make and
get inspired by other creators. And of
course, you can try the character
creator right now at pixelab.ai.
Create, share, and be part of the
community. Thanks for watching. I'll see
you in the next one.
[Music]